# AddNewComponentInBlazor.exe

Console tool to add a new Blazor component with .razor file for markup and .razor.cs file for code.

Plan is to add this to the context menu in Visual Studio 2019 as a scaffolder, however, at this time I am having problems finding ways to do this. So, currently this is implemented as a .NET 5.0 console application.

For more details, please read [Organizing and Naming Components in Blazor](https://mariomucalo.com/organizing-and-naming-components-in-blazor/) on my blog.

## What does it do

Once run, the tool creates a `.razor` component and a `.razor.cs` class with the same name in the given folder. It also creates the `.razor.css` file, as Blazor now allows CSS isolation per component. The `.razor.cs` class name has the "Base" suffix and extends `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.ComponentBase`. The `.razor` component automaticall has the `@inherits` directive so it is connected with the class where the code is. The `.razor.css` file is empty. All files are `UTF8`.

### Example:

`AddNewComponentInBlazor MyComponent`

will create two files:

**MyComponent.razor**
```
@inherits MyComponentBase
<h3>MyComponent</h3>
```

**MyComponent.razor.cs**
```
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components;


namespace Namespace.Generated.Based.On.Folder.Structure
{
	public class MyComponentBase : ComponentBase
	{
		
	}
}
```

**MyComponent.razor.css**
```

```

Namespace is generated by searching through folders level by level up until a `.csproj` file is found. Once it is found, the `.csproj` filename is the base of the namespace and the subfolders are divided by `.`.

## How to set up

1. Download the source code.
2. Use Visual Studio 2019 to publish the console application to an `.exe` file
3. Add the folder where the published `.exe` is to system path

## How to use

In the terminal place yourself in the folder where you want the files to be added.
Type the following command.

`AddNewComponentInBlazor <FileName>`

The files that will get created are `<FileName>.razor`, `<FileName>.razor.cs` and `<FileName.razor.css`. The class name from which the code behind will be inherited will be `<FileName>Base`.
  
  
